1. what is severity and priority for example?

severity is the impact of the business where the priority is important assigned to the item 

2.what is key difference when testing standalone application and customer facing application
 desktop have single tire architecture

3. process module- we use the waterfall model or linear model this a traditional model?

  In waterfall model documentation plays a very important role everything will be documented
  we talk with the client and gether the requirements and prepare the FRD Document then we will have a system design phase based on the FRD
  we are creating the design and based on the design, developers will start developing the software and then we will be testing and deployment
  and maintenance 
  
Advantages of waterfall model
1. quality of the product will be good==waterfall will be used for the long team of the project every phase we have detailed documentation 
2. since requirement changes are not allowed, the chances of finding the bugs are very less ==frequantly changing the requirement is not possible in waterfall method
 we need to for change request(CR) if we keep on changing the requirement chance of finding the bugs will be high
3. initial investment is less since the tester are hired at the later stage
4.
Disadvantages of waterfall model(because of the disadvantages of the waterfall we moved into some other model)
 1.if we want to add requirements we need to start from the first so requirements changes are not allowed
 2. if ther is defect in requirement it will continued till the end ==if the requirement is wrond design will be wrong if design is
 wrong dev will be wrong and we cant find the defect (if there is a default in 1 phase it will be there in phase 2)
3. total investment is more because if we find the defect in testing we need to go back to the previous phase and do rework it will cost more
4.testing will start only after coding  
over here every phase depends on the previous phase of the model until of completing the first phase we can't move for the second phase


4.Spiral model - to overcome the disadvantage of the waterfall model we came across the spiral model

1. planing == requirement analyzation
2. Risk Analyzation == like how much dev, how must tester we need this all comes under requirement analyzation
3. Engerniring &Execution ==Design and development
4. Evaluation ==Testing

1.Spiral model is iterative model and it also called as version control model -if one cycle is finished we will deliver one V1 to the customer (this prepared for product based)
2. spiral model overcomes the waterfall model - requirement change is posable 
3. In every cycle new software will be released
4.we follow spiral model when ever there is dependency on the model -eg gmail in phase 1 we compose mail in phase 2 send box email

Advantages of spiral model
1.testing is done on every cycle, before going into next cycle
2. Customers will get to use the software of every module. -customer dont need to wait until we finish the developing.
3.requirement change is allowed after completing the cycle before going to the next cycle

Disadvantages of spiral model
Requirement changes is not allowed in between of cycle
Every cycle of spiral model looks like waterfall model
no testing in requirement on development phase

5. V model or VV model verification and validation model

In every phase, we do testing thats speciality of V model like in requirement phase, design phase, development, testing

1.V Top to bottom
1. BRS/CRS/URS(this document can be understandable to by business people not by tec pep) == Business requirement 
 specification/ Customer req spec/User req spec Based  on this we do USER acceptance testing(BU team members will do review thats king of testing) 
2.SRS == Software requirement specification document based on this BRS the SRS document will be prepared for tec and testing people.
 In SRS system testing will be done(project manager will do review that is kind of testing)
3. HLD and LLD == High-level design and low-level design document In HLD we will have main modules and LLD we will have submodules.
In HLD Integration testing will be done
4. Coding based on HLD and LLD coding will start. Unit testing will be done
all the four comes under verification 1. Business Unit 2. project manager 3. design 4. developers 

2.V Bottom to Top
1. Unit testing, testing the single module is called unit testing
2. Integration testing, testing multiple module by the dev is called integration testing
3. system testting, after condacting the unit and integration testing application will be given to testing for system testing
4.UAT testing will be done by client side


6.Static testing 
testing the project-related document is called as static testing
in the form of: 
Review
walkthrough
inspection

Dynamic testing
 testing the actual software.
 in the form of 
unit 
integration testing
UAT testing
System testing

7. Verification and validation
verification check whether we are building the right product==in every phase we are implementing correctly or not
focus on documentation
verification typically involves 
review 
walkthrough
inspection

before software we do verification after software we do validation

Validation 
validation check whether we are building the product righ ==
focus on software
validation typically involves 
unit testing, integration testing,system testing and UAT




