Pre-request script

before starting the script pr-request will be executed.

pre-request---->request---->response---->Tests

pre-requests and test are available in three level

collection
folder
request

flow for executing the pre-request and test would be

Collection pre-request-------->folder pre-request---------->pre-request---->request---->response---->Collection Tests----->Folder test-------->Test.


In the above flow if you have many request then for each request the collection and folder pre-request and test will execute each and every time.

why we use pre-request?

let say if we requesting post in that we have to write the write the name,email, phone etc. in request boady(this is called hardcoarding)
if you want to create the name,email, phone dynamically you can go for pre-request.

if you are sending rquest and you require some things that needs before the request then we go for pre-request.

Variable
---------

what?
why?
where?


variable means which can store some data 
some time we have repitation which is used many time then we can store in variable
To avoid duplicates we need variable


variables can create in multiple levels

scope
-----
global
collections
environment
local
data variable



how to create and how to access the variable?

Workspace-->collections---->Folders--->requests

gloable variable as over all workspace access means access in all collection,folders request
In the right corner in the top of postman we enviroment quick look
click on the enviroment quick look then you can see gloable variable
click on add and enter or give the name to the variable  in inital value give the same value as current variable.
then were ever you want to use the variable you can access by give {{}} inside that give the variable name eg:{{url_global}}.

Collection variables are access able with in the collection only.

click on collection three dots and click on edit and you can see the auth pre-request test and variables 
under variables you careat the variables



Environment variables as used in different evervirement like dev,QA, production when ever you run the request and you want to switch to that enviroment and run the request.

Env is also kind of global variables.
first we need to create the environemnt with env you cant create env variables

how to create the env?
same globale variable you can create new env by clicking on click on the enviroment quick look then you can see env variable
click on add and enter or give the name to the variable  in inital value give the same value as current variable.

to access env variable

you can access by giving {{url_env}} but the problem is you have to swtich to that environment before accessing that variables.

Local variable 
we can create at request level we define in pre-request scripts

pm.variables.set("url_local","value of url");


data - variable will be created in excel file/csv/txt file the external file.


we can create global variable and env variaable in pre-request scripts

pm.globals.set("userid","2");// once it is created it can be accessed in another request also.
pm.environment.set("userid","3");// we can create this variable only if we have existing  env like QA or dev or any env.

pm.collectionVariables.set("id","value");

To delete the variables we need to write in Test tab in collection level,folder or request

pm.globals.unset("name of the variable");

same for env and collection variable  as per the above comments.

how to get the variable data means store the data or  print the data in test tab.

var id= pm.globals.get("userid_global");
console.log(id);

same for env and collection variable  as per the above comments


so for we used 
set
unset
get 
methods for variables.

